Several Newroz users find it difficult in the beginning to differentiate between a workspace and roast
package and also may find difficulties in understanding how to set up their first projects.
In this video I'm going to explain the process of creating a new workspace and a new package.
So after installing glass we need to do a little bit of configurations to enable us in your mental operating
system.
So those will be installed in the directory up on us and then the remove of the budget.
In this case it's kinetic.
And here we can find the whole workspace for the ros installation.
So the workspace represents the working area and any workspace would have a special site that is set
up.
OK.
So we have set up that bus and set up the S H for a different type of checks and this file must be executed
to enable the workspace.
So the workspace is actually the working area that contains the file that we need to run across our
most applications.
So we need for example to run the set to the bus using the command source.
So instead of writing this manually every time in a terminal we should write it into the bus of C which
is defined automatically executed whenever you start a new terminal.
So the dog bus or C contains several script commands.
That will be automatically executed every time you open a terminal.
So is the home directory we can type.
I bash.
I see.
And then we will have this file open and then I'm going to write the command source slash of lusterless
masculinity lunatic which is the path to the workspace.
And this is the file set up that bus that will be executed to enable the workspace.
So here if I type rescore before opening a new terminal before the changes take effect you will see
a score is not detected.
OK.
Same thing if I run a CD that takes me to the default workspace.
It cannot be executed.
Now if I close this terminal and open another one so that changes will be effective.
And then I can make arrests.
See it will take me to the default workspace.
So this is not the default workspace and also Roscoff which sucks the main node is going to be working.
However when working with groups it is not convenient.
Work in the default workspace the common practice is to create your own workspace where to put your
trust projects so that your rescored and programs will be in a workspace different from the default
one.
And for this we need to create our own workspace.
So let's see how it works.
So let me first go to the home directory.
So this is our home directory and basically we need to follow the instructions in those tutorials.
Create a workspace for.
In a nutshell that is just the compilation framework used by the environment to create a clean workspace.
So it means the workspace where we are going to set up our projects and put our files were going first
to create a new directory in the home folder and the common practice is to put it in the home folder
and give it a name.
Kathleen w s or catkin workspace.
You can give me any name of your choice but this is the common name in Russ and then we will create
Also the s r folder which is going to be the father that will contain the source file of your code it
will contain packages that you will create later on.
So first of all workspace let's say this is a big area you can consider it as like a big table where
later on you're going to organize your projects which are going to call them packages into this workspace
so we can see that a workspace is a complete working environment and packages will be your own individual
projects that will be put inside the workspace.
So let's create the directory.
Now you can go to the directory in workspace.
And finally you can compile the workspace using the command that kin make and now the workspace is created.
So after compilation we have now created to get the workspace into the home directory which contains
also a big development and source FARGHER.
So you can see if make Russy which is the command that takes you to the default workspace is going to
take as is still the default workspace up slashers QinetiQ even if I close and open again.
So you can see the new workspace is still not enabled in order to enable the workspace we must also
source the setup that bash that is located in this workspace and you can find it in the developed folder.
So here we have set up that this one must be source to enable this workspace to be the default like.
So how to do this permanently.
We go to you Ellie the bus.
I see.
And we need also to do a source home.
That's what I do.
This is the name of the user.
And so now this is the home directory.
This is our workspace that we have created.
And this is the event finder.
And finally we execute the setup of bash game.
So now I enable this instruction.
Now I will open a new terminal so you can see how I make RISELEY it's going to take us by the fall to
the clean workspace that we have created right now.
Why.
Because this one was sourced after the default.
So you can see now if I go back to a little bash I see I am printing not us back and stuff which is
shown here.
This is now the default web.
And this is the workspace of the installation.
Now that you have created you workspace it is time to start creating your projects.
So for us project is actually called a package and a package is defined inside a workspace as a location
where to create the files and the programs of the last project.
So first of all we need to go to look at the workspace.
And as you already know the catkin workspace contains a three for work one for the b that contains the
compiled files one for the development and one called sarcy for the source files.
So our packages or projects will be created into the RC folder.
So let me go to the sarcy and then not have to create a new package we need to use the command catkin
create an EKG and then we specify the name of the package.
In this case I'm going to call it truss basics features.
And finally we need to specify the dependencies which means the cross libraries on which the project
will be back of course.
There are common libraries that we can include in the project since the creation time like for example
standard messages or spy for Python and the recipe for C++ we can include also other libraries.
But at the creation time we may not be able to know what are all the libraries that our project will
depend on.
So this is not a problem because later on I will explain how to create a neuros applications and programs.
I also explained on how to add manually new dependencies into the project.
So for now it will be ok to just leave the project with only these three dependencies.
So now we execute the command and the newest package is created.
But still I need to compile the workspace to complete the creation of the package.
So to compile the new package we need to go to the cutting workspace that actually and then we use the
command that we make.
So now our project is created and we can go to the SSD finder and we can check that we have already
Arris basics tutorials created.
OK this is getting paid assassin.
And inside you have an S R C finder.
And this is where to put the source code of those programs that we will develop and include here.
The place where to put libraries.
One of the moment our source folder is empty and we are able to create new programs here.
So now we can use an integrated development environment to open this project.
For example I'm going to use Visual Studio code and you can use any other of your choice.
Remember that you can refer to the video which ID to choose if you want to have more information about
the different possibilities available to develop those programs with different integrated environments.
So we can and visit you code
and then you can drag and drop that here.
So we get to the source wonder then we can create new files.
McGlade for example told Kirk CVP
needs to be so just for illustration purposes.
This is something called for Mr. Dodd to be and this is another called for conductivity.
Of course I'm going to explain more in details.
The Tyrker listener application in a later video.
But just to show you how to create notes and how to execute them after creating your workspace and your
package.
The next step is to add the compilation information into the catkin workspace.
So I will add an executable for the target and execute but it's not.
Of course this concept will be explained in the complete details in the lecture of how to implement
a publisher and subscriber.
So here when you add the executable we must make sure to specify the correct path to the note.
So here this is the path to the not Colcord is TTP.
So we go to Kinnaman space S or C busy.
So this is now the SIRC the semi-closed.
So you have to be the same thing here.
I see this.
I don't see the
after that we can go to look at workspace and find that exit a comment that we make.
So now our two executable files are created and we can run the program.
So first of all we run the scope
then using Control shift key open a new terminal we can run a restaurant.
So the name of the package that we have created we choose the most basic tutorial.
And then you have two notes.
So let's start with a little girl.
OK.
Now is publicI
in the second term of we're on that list.
Program which is also in its package.
And then we press listener or US note and you can see now Dilawar 11 12.
So you can see now 30 you can find 13 and so on.
So this is a publisher publishing and this is subscale subscriber.
So as already mentioned I'm going to explain in more detail how the publisher subscriber works.
It is just a matter of demonstrating on how to create an application right away after creating a workspace
and Parros package.